Ok, so lets practice adding inputs to our
application.
For this and the next example, I’m going
to be using a favorites component.
So lets go ahead and create that, and I’m
going to create it in our app folder.
I’ll say new folder and we’re going to
name this favorites.
Then inside of our favorites folder I’m
going to create a typescript file and an html
file.
So I’ll right-click that and say new file.
And we’re going to name this favorite.component.ts.
Create another new file which will be favorite.component.html.
I’m going to start in my html file.
I’m going to add just a simple tag in order
to make sure that this component is working.
So we’ll just say ‘hello world’ here.
Now I’ll go back into the favorite component
and add our setup code.
We’re going to be importing both component
and input, and this is going to be from angular/core.
Next, I’m going to export our class.
And the name of our class is going to be FavoriteComponent.
And then we’ll go ahead and create our component
decorator.
And first we’ll say moduleId is module.id.
Next, we’ll declare a selector which is
going to be called bs-favorite.
And then finally, we’ll list our templateUrl
which is located in the same folder and is
called favorite.component.html.
The next thing I’ll do is add this comonent
into our app module declarations.
Opening up my app.module.ts file, just going
to copy this over and change this around.
So we’re going to be in the favorites folder
and this will be our favorite component.
And this is called FavoriteComponent is our
class.
And then we’ll make sure to add this to
our array of declarations as FavoriteComponent.
Now I just want to test out that our favorite
component is working and to do that I’ll
open up our books-list.html file.
And I’m going to add our favorite component
child selector right below this div row say
div container.
Then inside here, we’ll say bs-favorite
which is the name of the selector.
And I’m going to save this and we should
expect to see the ‘hello world’ we defined
in our html file to appear below the row.
So I’ll save that.
Take a look at our application, you can see
that we’re getting ‘hello world’ as
we expected.
Now lets go ahead and add our input.
So inside our favorite component I’m going
to declare our Input by using our @ declaration
and the property that I want to create is
called reviews which is of type number.
And now we can use this reviews inside of
the booksList html file right inside of where
our selector is.
So what we need to do first is wrap our property
in square brackets and then we need to set
it equal to a value inside of the parent.
We can choose really any of these book title,
book author, book description, but since we
want to show reviews we’ll say book.bookReviews
and we’ll go ahead and save this.
But what I haven’t done is I haven’t used
this reviews property in the favorite component
html file just yet.
So what we can do is use this however we want
and we’ll use interpolation.
So now we should expect to see ‘hello world’
and then a number of reviews which will be
the number 15.
Lets go ahead and save that and look at our
application.
Its actually not appearing and if I look at
the console we’re getting an error and its
saying cannot read property ‘bookReviews’
of undefined.
So the reason is if we go back into our booksList
html, is that we haven’t yet declared what
bookReviews is.
This is outside of the div where our ngFor
is defining what bookReviews actually is,
so that’s why we get the error.
So what we can do is cut this and I’m going
to paste this right below the ngFor.
By pasting this right below the ngFor which
defines this book.bookReviews now this should
work.
Go head and save that.
When we reload our application we can see
we are now getting the interpolated value
15 inside of our child component.